.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt ROSENPASS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rosenpass
.Nd builds post-quantum-secure VPNs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op COMMAND
.Op Ar OPTIONS ...
.Op Ar ARGS ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
performs cryptographic key exchanges that are secure against quantum-computers
and then outputs the keys.
These keys can then be passed to various services, such as wireguard or other
vpn services, as pre-shared-keys to achieve security against attackers with
quantum computers.
.Pp
This is a research project and quantum computers are not thought to become
practical in fewer than ten years.
If you are not specifically tasked with developing post-quantum secure systems,
you probably do not need this tool.
.Ss COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar keygen private-key <file-path> public-key <file-path>
Generate a keypair to use in the exchange command later.
Send the public-key file to your communication partner and keep the private-key
file secret!
.It Ar exchange private-key <file-path> public-key <file-path> [ OPTIONS ] PEERS
Start a process to exchange keys with the specified peers.
You should specify at least one peer.
.Pp
Its
.Ar OPTIONS
are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar listen <ip>[:<port>]
Instructs
.Nm
to listen on the specified interface and port.
By default,
.Nm
will listen on all interfaces and select a random port.
.It Ar verbose
Extra logging.
.El
.El
.Ss PEER
Each
.Ar PEER
is defined as follows:
.Qq peer public-key <file-path> [endpoint <ip>[:<port>]] [preshared-key <file-path>] [outfile <file-path>] [wireguard <dev> <peer> <extra_params>]
.Pp
Providing a
.Ar PEER
instructs
.Nm
to exchange keys with the given peer and write the resulting PSK into the given
output file.
You must either specify the outfile or wireguard output option.
.Pp
The parameters of
.Ar PEER
are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar endpoint <ip>[:<port>]
Specifies the address where the peer can be reached.
This will be automatically updated after the first successful key exchange with
the peer.
If this is unspecified, the peer must initiate the connection.
.It Ar preshared-key <file-path>
You may specify a pre-shared key which will be mixed into the final secret.
.It Ar outfile <file-path>
You may specify a file to write the exchanged keys to.
If this option is specified,
.Nm
will write a notification to standard out every time the key is updated.
.It Ar wireguard <dev> <peer> <extra_params>
This allows you to directly specify a wireguard peer to deploy the
pre-shared-key to.
You may specify extra parameters you would pass to
.Qq wg set
besides the preshared-key parameter which is used by
.Nm .
This makes it possible to add peers entirely from
.Nm .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rp 1 ,
.Xr wg 1
.Rs
.%A Karolin Varner
.%A Benjamin Lipp
.%A Wanja Zaeske
.%A Lisa Schmidt
.%D 2023
.%T Rosenpass
.%U https://rosenpass.eu/whitepaper.pdf
.Re
.Sh STANDARDS
This tool is the reference implementation of the Rosenpass protocol, as
specified within the whitepaper referenced above.
.Sh AUTHORS
Rosenpass was created by Karolin Varner, Benjamin Lipp, Wanja Zaeske,
Marei Peischl, Stephan Ajuvo, and Lisa Schmidt.
.Pp
This manual page was written by
.An Emil Engler
.Sh BUGS
The bugs are tracked at
.Lk https://github.com/rosenpass/rosenpass/issues .
